src/site/notes/World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/The Way of the Great Ape.md, before:

---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/world/npc/gods-demigods-and-devine-beasts/way-of-the-great-ape/the-way-of-the-great-ape/"}
---


#### Supreme Deity: The Great Ape

**[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Hanuman Wukong, the Great Ape\|Hanuman Wukong, The Great Ape]]** is the all-powerful, all-knowing deity worshipped by the Simians, a race of ultra-intelligent monkeys and apes. The Great Ape is depicted as a colossal, radiant ape, whose wisdom and intelligence surpass all understanding. The Great Ape created the world and bestowed upon the Simians their unmatched intellect, granting them dominion over their lush, verdant lands.

#### Creation Myth

According to Simian lore, the Great Ape formed the world with the help of Xintao, the Celestial Dragon God from the cosmic jungle, weaving vines and shaping mountains with divine hands. The first Simians were created from the fertile soil, breathed to life with the essence of the Great Ape. These first beings were tasked with nurturing the world, preserving its beauty, and seeking enlightenment through knowledge and wisdom.

#### Core Beliefs and Practices

1. **Pursuit of Knowledge**: Simians believe that their purpose is to seek knowledge and understanding of the universe. Learning is considered a sacred act, and libraries and academies are often built as temples to the Great Ape.
    
2. **Harmony with Nature**: The Great Ape taught the Simians to live in harmony with the natural world. They are stewards of the forests and jungles, ensuring the balance of life and death, growth and decay.
    
3. **Meditation and Reflection**: Simians practice daily meditation to connect with the Great Ape, seeking inner peace and clarity. Reflection upon their actions and thoughts is crucial to their spiritual growth.
    

#### Monastic Tradition: The Path of the Enlightened

Some Simians, feeling a deep calling from the Great Ape, choose to renounce their lands, titles, and worldly possessions to become monks. This path is known as the Path of the Enlightened. These monks dedicate their lives to meditation, study, and the service of others. They believe that true enlightenment can only be achieved by shedding material attachments and focusing solely on spiritual and intellectual growth.

#### Heaven and Hell: The Eternal Canopy and the Abyssal Jungle

**The Eternal Canopy**: This is the Simian heaven, a realm of endless verdant forests and towering trees where the enlightened souls of the Simians dwell in eternal peace and knowledge. It is a place of infinite wisdom, where the Great Ape resides, and where souls continue to learn and grow in harmony.

**The Abyssal Jungle**: This is the Simian hell governed by [[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Zal'Thoth, The Chimera\|Zal'Thoth, The Chimera]], a dark and twisted forest where souls who have strayed from the teachings of the Great Ape are trapped. It is a place of chaos and torment, where the corrupted are doomed to wander lost and isolated, cut off from the light and wisdom of the Great Ape. Redemption is possible, but it requires immense effort and the assistance of the enlightened.

#### Religious Hierarchy

1. **High Priests of the Great Ape**: These are the highest-ranking religious leaders, believed to have the closest connection to the Great Ape. They interpret divine will and guide the spiritual journey of the Simians.
    
2. **Lorekeepers**: Scholars and sages who dedicate their lives to preserving and expanding the knowledge of the Simians. They maintain the great libraries and ensure that the wisdom of the Great Ape is passed down through generations.
    
3. **Monks**: Those who have renounced their worldly possessions and titles to follow the Path of the Enlightened. They live in secluded monasteries, practicing meditation, study, and service.
    
4. **Common Worshippers**: Everyday Simians who seek to live in accordance with the teachings of the Great Ape. They participate in communal rituals, meditation sessions, and contribute to the stewardship of nature.
    

#### Rituals and Festivals

1. **Day of Creation**: An annual festival celebrating the creation of the world by the Great Ape. It involves grand feasts, storytelling, and rituals to honor the natural world.
    
2. **Meditation of the Full Moon**: Monthly gatherings where Simians meditate under the light of the full moon, believed to enhance their connection with the Great Ape.
    
3. **Rites of Passage**: Ceremonies marking significant life events, such as coming of age, marriage, and ascension to higher spiritual ranks.
    

#### Sacred Texts

The teachings and stories of the Great Ape are compiled in the **Codex Simiana**, a vast collection of texts encompassing mythology, philosophy, and practical wisdom. This codex is revered and studied extensively by the Simians, guiding their path to enlightenment.

Through the reverence of the Great Ape, the Simians find purpose, wisdom, and harmony, striving to embody the divine teachings in their quest for enlightenment.

Gods:
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Aarok, the Sky Guardian\|Aarok, the Sky Guardian]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Bhima, the Sage\|Bhima, the Sage]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Chelonia, the Turtle Sage\|Chelonia, the Turtle Sage]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Ganesh, the Wise Elephant\|Ganesh, the Wise Elephant]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Gifford, the Armored General\|Gifford, the Armored General]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Hanuman Wukong, the Great Ape\|Hanuman Wukong, the Great Ape]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Jataka, the Earth Shaper\|Jataka, the Earth Shaper]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Kapi, the Warrior\|Kapi, the Warrior]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Kenkoro, the Echo\|Kenkoro, the Echo]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Leporia, the Swift One\|Leporia, the Swift One]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Owlthena, the Night Watcher\|Owlthena, the Night Watcher]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Sekhmet, the Lioness of Valor\|Sekhmet, the Lioness of Valor]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Simiya, the Healer\|Simiya, the Healer]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Sotek, the Serpent King\|Sotek, the Serpent King]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Tezcatlipoca, the Jaguar God\|Tezcatlipoca, the Jaguar God]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Thri'Kesh, the Hive Mind\|Thri'Kesh, the Hive Mind]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Vanara, the Trickster\|Vanara, the Trickster]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Xintao, the Celestial Dragon God\|Xintao, the Celestial Dragon God]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Yuan-Li, the Serpent Empress\|Yuan-Li, the Serpent Empress]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Zal'Thoth, The Chimera\|Zal'Thoth, The Chimera]]

Devine beasts and Guardians:
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Aeron, the Storm Eagle\|Aeron, the Storm Eagle]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Grumm, the Iron Hippo\|Grumm, the Iron Hippo]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Hissara, the Emerald Serpent\|Hissara, the Emerald Serpent]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Ishara, the White Lioness\|Ishara, the White Lioness]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Kraas, the Echo Raven\|Kraas, the Echo Raven]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Laoteng\|Laoteng]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Mastodon, the Ivory Titan\|Mastodon, the Ivory Titan]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Nyx, the Shadow Owl\|Nyx, the Shadow Owl]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Qitara, the Golden Hare\|Qitara, the Golden Hare]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Seraphina, the Cobra Empress\|Seraphina, the Cobra Empress]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Thri'Nar, the Hive Sovereign\|Thri'Nar, the Hive Sovereign]]

Commit message:

Update content src/site/notes/World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/The Way of the Great Ape.md

src/site/notes/World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/The Way of the Great Ape.md, after:

---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/world/npc/gods-demigods-and-devine-beasts/way-of-the-great-ape/the-way-of-the-great-ape/"}
---


#### Supreme Deity: The Great Ape

**[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Hanuman Wukong, the Great Ape\|Hanuman Wukong, The Great Ape]]** is the all-powerful, all-knowing deity worshipped by the Simians, a race of ultra-intelligent monkeys and apes. The Great Ape is depicted as a colossal, radiant ape, whose wisdom and intelligence surpass all understanding. The Great Ape created the world and bestowed upon the Simians their unmatched intellect, granting them dominion over their lush, verdant lands.

#### Creation Myth

According to Simian lore, the Great Ape formed the world with the help of [[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Xintao, the Celestial Dragon God\|Xintao, the Celestial Dragon God]] from the cosmic jungle, weaving vines and shaping mountains with divine hands. The first Simians were created from the fertile soil, breathed to life with the essence of the Great Ape. These first beings were tasked with nurturing the world, preserving its beauty, and seeking enlightenment through knowledge and wisdom.

#### Core Beliefs and Practices

1. **Pursuit of Knowledge**: Simians believe that their purpose is to seek knowledge and understanding of the universe. Learning is considered a sacred act, and libraries and academies are often built as temples to the Great Ape.
    
2. **Harmony with Nature**: The Great Ape taught the Simians to live in harmony with the natural world. They are stewards of the forests and jungles, ensuring the balance of life and death, growth and decay.
    
3. **Meditation and Reflection**: Simians practice daily meditation to connect with the Great Ape, seeking inner peace and clarity. Reflection upon their actions and thoughts is crucial to their spiritual growth.
    

#### Monastic Tradition: The Path of the Enlightened

Some Simians, feeling a deep calling from the Great Ape, choose to renounce their lands, titles, and worldly possessions to become monks. This path is known as the Path of the Enlightened. These monks dedicate their lives to meditation, study, and the service of others. They believe that true enlightenment can only be achieved by shedding material attachments and focusing solely on spiritual and intellectual growth.

#### Heaven and Hell: The Eternal Canopy and the Abyssal Jungle

**The Eternal Canopy**: This is the Simian heaven, a realm of endless verdant forests and towering trees where the enlightened souls of the Simians dwell in eternal peace and knowledge. It is a place of infinite wisdom, where the Great Ape resides, and where souls continue to learn and grow in harmony.

**The Abyssal Jungle**: This is the Simian hell governed by [[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Zal'Thoth, The Chimera\|Zal'Thoth, The Chimera]], a dark and twisted forest where souls who have strayed from the teachings of the Great Ape are trapped. It is a place of chaos and torment, where the corrupted are doomed to wander lost and isolated, cut off from the light and wisdom of the Great Ape. Redemption is possible, but it requires immense effort and the assistance of the enlightened.

#### Religious Hierarchy

1. **High Priests of the Great Ape**: These are the highest-ranking religious leaders, believed to have the closest connection to the Great Ape. They interpret divine will and guide the spiritual journey of the Simians.
    
2. **Lorekeepers**: Scholars and sages who dedicate their lives to preserving and expanding the knowledge of the Simians. They maintain the great libraries and ensure that the wisdom of the Great Ape is passed down through generations.
    
3. **Monks**: Those who have renounced their worldly possessions and titles to follow the Path of the Enlightened. They live in secluded monasteries, practicing meditation, study, and service.
    
4. **Common Worshippers**: Everyday Simians who seek to live in accordance with the teachings of the Great Ape. They participate in communal rituals, meditation sessions, and contribute to the stewardship of nature.
    

#### Rituals and Festivals

1. **Day of Creation**: An annual festival celebrating the creation of the world by the Great Ape. It involves grand feasts, storytelling, and rituals to honor the natural world.
    
2. **Meditation of the Full Moon**: Monthly gatherings where Simians meditate under the light of the full moon, believed to enhance their connection with the Great Ape.
    
3. **Rites of Passage**: Ceremonies marking significant life events, such as coming of age, marriage, and ascension to higher spiritual ranks.
    

#### Sacred Texts

The teachings and stories of the Great Ape are compiled in the **Codex Simiana**, a vast collection of texts encompassing mythology, philosophy, and practical wisdom. This codex is revered and studied extensively by the Simians, guiding their path to enlightenment.

Through the reverence of the Great Ape, the Simians find purpose, wisdom, and harmony, striving to embody the divine teachings in their quest for enlightenment.

Gods:
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Aarok, the Sky Guardian\|Aarok, the Sky Guardian]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Bhima, the Sage\|Bhima, the Sage]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Chelonia, the Turtle Sage\|Chelonia, the Turtle Sage]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Ganesh, the Wise Elephant\|Ganesh, the Wise Elephant]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Gifford, the Armored General\|Gifford, the Armored General]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Hanuman Wukong, the Great Ape\|Hanuman Wukong, the Great Ape]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Jataka, the Earth Shaper\|Jataka, the Earth Shaper]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Kapi, the Warrior\|Kapi, the Warrior]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Kenkoro, the Echo\|Kenkoro, the Echo]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Leporia, the Swift One\|Leporia, the Swift One]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Owlthena, the Night Watcher\|Owlthena, the Night Watcher]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Sekhmet, the Lioness of Valor\|Sekhmet, the Lioness of Valor]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Simiya, the Healer\|Simiya, the Healer]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Sotek, the Serpent King\|Sotek, the Serpent King]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Tezcatlipoca, the Jaguar God\|Tezcatlipoca, the Jaguar God]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Thri'Kesh, the Hive Mind\|Thri'Kesh, the Hive Mind]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Vanara, the Trickster\|Vanara, the Trickster]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Xintao, the Celestial Dragon God\|Xintao, the Celestial Dragon God]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Yuan-Li, the Serpent Empress\|Yuan-Li, the Serpent Empress]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Gods/Zal'Thoth, The Chimera\|Zal'Thoth, The Chimera]]

Devine beasts and Guardians:
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Aeron, the Storm Eagle\|Aeron, the Storm Eagle]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Grumm, the Iron Hippo\|Grumm, the Iron Hippo]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Hissara, the Emerald Serpent\|Hissara, the Emerald Serpent]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Ishara, the White Lioness\|Ishara, the White Lioness]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Kraas, the Echo Raven\|Kraas, the Echo Raven]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Laoteng\|Laoteng]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Mastodon, the Ivory Titan\|Mastodon, the Ivory Titan]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Nyx, the Shadow Owl\|Nyx, the Shadow Owl]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Qitara, the Golden Hare\|Qitara, the Golden Hare]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Seraphina, the Cobra Empress\|Seraphina, the Cobra Empress]]
[[World/Npc/Gods, Demigods and Devine Beasts/Way of The Great Ape/Devine Beasts/Thri'Nar, the Hive Sovereign\|Thri'Nar, the Hive Sovereign]]
